FEBRUARY 20, 1970

UNIVERSITY OF PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

Pace 9

THE

by Mike McGaughey
VARIETY SHOW SMASH HIT

The 1970 UPEI Winter Carnival variety show has been
considered by the student body and the public in general
as being the most enjoyable carnival event and an ‘unquali-
fied success overall. Due to the tremendous support it re-
received at the box office an unscheduled second perfor-
mance was presented immediately following the first for
the benefit of those people who were unable to view the
premiere owing to a lack of adequate seating space.

The show lived up to its “Variety” heading as it in fact -

did present a great variety of acts ranging from folksy type
singing to far out humor. As a whole, the show followed
a “Laugh-In” format and starred “Dick and Jane” as mas-
ters of ceremonies and fill-in humorists. The basic format
was, however, overshadowed by the rest of the show as many
of the jokes and gags 'used were either considered to be
off-color or just not funny.

The remaining acts were the salvation of the show. All
the musical entertainment was superbly presented and exe-
cuted to the utter joy and satisfaction of the entire audience
and the audience voiced it’s approval by calling the entire
troupe back for several curtain-calls to the accompaniment
of a standing ovation.

Recently I conducted a poll to determine the most pop-
ular comedy acts in the show. Topping this poll by a nar-
row margin was “Captain Bearheart’s Little Leaguers” star-
ring Jim Hornby and the Bear Party/Education Committee
who did their famous rendition of “The Blimp”. Following
closely were “The Ballay Dancers,” “The Telephone Opera-
tor,” “The Dirty Old Man,” and “Twink” Michaels as Bugs
Bunny in the show-opening number “This Is It”.

i Obviously congratulations are in order to all those who
made the show the success it was. So to all those who wrote,
performed, and worked behind the scenes we say simply
“Thank You”.

= MISSED CONNECTION

Of all the events that did come off in the 1970 Carnival,
the most disappointing flop was the so-called Feature En-

HOW RIGHT YOU ARE

tertainment. This feeling of disgust was almost universal
among those who had purchased Carnival Passes and was
especially prevalent among those who paid $2.50 for tickets
to the main entertainment only.

John Hammond who opened the show was totally unap-
preciated by all, myself included. Although he brought forth
more sounds from a guitar than most of us even imagined
existed, he just simply was not entertaining to 99% of the
audience although he received polite token applause. It was
quite obvious that the majority of the numbers were his own
compositions since it is highly unlikely that anyone in his
right mind would present such crap had it been the com-
position of some other artist. Hammond received a tremen-
dous ovation when his act ended as the audience were glad
to get rid of him and not because of any great appreciation
of his works.

Ester Marrow was the real star of the show and was it’s
one redeeming factor. Each number met with a tremendous
well-deserved round of applause. The most popular number
Ester Marrow performed was her version of “Hey Jude”
which appeared to be greatly appreciated by all.

The ultimate disappointment appeared in the form of
the top billed “Rotary Connection” from Chicago. This group
(and here I use the term ‘group’ in the loosest sense) turned
out to be our one-night $2,500 white-elephant. They seemed
to take the attitude that “We're only playing down here in
the sticks so we don’t have to be good anyway” and their
performance certainly indicated that they had taken this at-
titude to heart. Included among the long list of complaints
were the allegations that the band was too loud and that
they didn’t sing a decent song.

With this type of reaction and our limited entertain-
ment budget many people have suggested and even strongly
advocated eliminating this Feature Entertainment from the
Carnival. This suggestion was accompanied by a further
suggestion that it be replaced by a second performance of
the variety show.

CONSPIRACY CHARGES DIM CARNIVAL’S SUCCESS

Charges of conspiracy to ruin the Winter Carnival were
levelled against the weather by representatives of the Win-
X

ter Carnival Committee and the student body.

Due to inclement weather the scheduled Torchlight Par-

~ ade was cancelled. This must have been a supreme let-down

for those interest groups that had planned to enter a float
in the mammoth procession. Many people felt that the par-
ade should have been rescheduled instead of being scrubbed
entirely. A suggestion was made to the effect that the par-
ade should have taken place on the night of and immediately
preceding the variety show. However rumor has it that an
abbreviated version of the torchlight parade did in fact take
place on the night in question. Certain reliable witnesses
report seeing two figures trudging down the Malpeque Road
with a solitary torch sputtering in the rain. These reliable
sources report that many motorists joined in the spirit of
the occagion by blowing their horns at these two as they
journeyed both to and from the K-Mart.

Other events made impossible by this alledged conspir-
acy by the weather included snow-sculpturing, the Grand
Prix, and the Midnight Skate and Bonfire.

A further cancellation not due to the weather was the
“Leg Auction” which was cancelled oddly enough due to a
severe shortage of legs.

Notes By The Wayside

...Our special sports issue seemed to be well received.
It received no criticism at all, which is a first for this paper.
It must be difficult to disagree with sports reporting or
something.

.. .Everybody is invited to attend the hearings being held
by the Commission of Injuiry into the Non-Medical Use of
Drugs and to make submissions either signed or anonymous
as to the extent that Islanders use or are involved with var-
ious drugs. The drugs in question include narcotics as well
as hallucinogenic and other psychotropic drugs or substan-
ces. It could be interesting. Time and Place: Confederation
Centre Lecture Theatre, Saturday, Feb. 21.

COMING SOON

Results of food poll on Malpeque Campus (Residence
Students).

| get by with a little help from my friends

by Karl M.

This week I would like to address myself to an
oft-maligned subject;—smut; In a word which is
becoming increasingly intolerant of almost every-
thing, it is our duty to protect those areas which
render man his vicarious pleasure. Profound satis-
faction from direct participation is and never has
been probable. Honest and healthy relationships be-
tween individuals are not likely to exist in the mind
of the individuals, but never simultaneously.

Thus is the origin of what we call male chauvin-
ism—an institution founded on the principle that if
you can’t trust the female of the species then you
must place her in a dominated protected environ-
ment which will insure her fidelity. The insidious
aspect of this kind of domination is that the female
actually thinks that her nest (a la birds) was con-
structed by her mate to protect her and provide her
with environmental security.

This is further demonstrated in the codes for
moral action. It is not clear that the male has a
different code because they have established the
roles that are to be accepted? Thus woman’s libera-
tion under present conditions only means further
exploitation namely sexual exploitation. If however
the female fails to resignize her status she will then
continue to misconstrue the essential nature of the
male intent in the relationship. The male is obses-
sed with achieving a conquest and a surrender from
the female — perhaps an attitude induced by our
historical reverence of militarism. Consequently the

. female is on the defensive in any heterosexual rela-
tionship — a position she has not chosen but has
been forced to take for obvious reasons.

Let us briefly examine a typical relationship
with an eye for uncovering the weapons which are
used against the female. First if you are endowed
with the requisite equipment i.e. a body and a face
conducive to trapping the man of Your dreams then
you can proceed to step two. Those lacking either or
both of above mentioned characteristics please move
back two spaces. We will get back to you later! Now
have you ever heard this one: If you really loved me
you would go to bed with me. Also note the pained
plaintive look on his face. Most girls after enough
pleading will succumb. However where they make
their mistake is that they also proceed to have in-
tercourse with him. They are utterly convinced that
he shares the same feelings toward her. If the wom-
an says no; then that where you less \Well-endovwed

girls come in: you are not a higly valued commodity
on the market so your selling feature lies in the fact
that you are more prone to compromising yourself
than the others. Ask yourself why the “in” guy

. when slightly shot will always direct his affections

toward the “Plain Janes...

Just for laugh — ask that twit next to you at
the show if he would like to go to BEDDY-BY with
you. However before you do this make sure that

you bring a roll of toilet paper and a hanky to wipe.

off the drool — both for obvious reasons! Then just
as you are getting into bed ; agk him: “What are you
doing this for, you chauvinistic bastard?” If he is
completely bewildered then you know that the poor
dope is purely a product of male role theory: Also
a profuse apology indicates that he is employing a
tactic to overcome your obvious frigidity! However
if he understands your test then you have a guy
with whom you can have an honest and growing re-

CUSO

This is your last chance to join the C.U.S.0. volunteers overseas
working side by side with the peoples in the Third World, striv- I
ing to develop and modernize the Third World countries.

It’s a job Whi’ch offers you a true life experience you’ll never

forget or regret!

The door is open to You

For information and applications see:

lationship. Most girls lack the guts to confront the
male and easily succumb to confusing needs (e.g.
security) and the feeling that you are wanted.

The jaded preamble was concocted to explode
the myth that there is anything valuable in concoct-
ed relationships. The ritualistic defeat of the female
in the sexual dimension is repeated solely to revive .
the essence of the inherent domination. When the
sexual act hecomes the object of the relationship:
then the female herself becoms less than a ‘“love ob-
ject”. She simply becomes the means to satiate the
end. If this is not “raison d’etre” in life than you
must tell the exploiter to get his Hugh Hefner cata-
logue and order himself a plastic dummy instead of
using you for that sole purpose. Love is not sing-
ularly sex and a woman is not solely a Love-Mach-
ine! So read smut Hefner and Susann, because we
ain’t buying your line anymore. Let’s get on with
the strippers show!

MR. JOE O’CONNELL,
Department of Economics,
UPEI

BEA KEAVENY,
281 Kent St., Charlottetown
4-4913

