Pace 4 .

CHARLOTTETOWN, P.E.l.

FEBRUARY 20, 1970

OURTS AND LAWS need to be analyzed
to show their weakness in protecting

civil rights as well as their explicit poli-

tical function in many instances.

It is crucial to understand the feudal roots of our
present court system. Common law crimes are of-
ten classified as “treason”, “felonies”, and “mis-
demeanors”. Treason meant conspiracy with the
king’s enemy, and the “traitor’s” property was
confiscated by the King. Felonies were grave crimes
against the feudal system and the “felon’s” pro-
perty was forfeited to his feudal lord. Misdemean-
ors are all the minor crimes developed within the
capitalist nation state.

Under early common law the local nobles and
land owners rendered legal decisions. Often other
forms of trial were used, for example “trial by
combat”, by “ordeal” (e.g. hot iron or boiling
water.)

While a few protections against this feudal law
system were won (habeas corpus) as industrial
capitalism developed; for Canada, without even a
revolutionary history providing for lberal rights,
it is accurate to speak of our legal system as a mu-
tation of conservative laws inherited from the feudal
past and laws developed by a capitalist nation state.
The only progressive thing about our courts is the
architecture.

Magistrates, who sit over most court cases in
Canada, are political appontees. They do not even
need legal training, which actually might make them
more humanist. Feudal lords no longer sit over
their serfs, but the form of today’s courts has a
real similarity with the past. The dispossessed, min-
orities, lower classes and political prisoners fill the
jails and penetentiaries since the distribution of
wealth and power in the society safeguards others.

When the courts are studied historically and
sociologeally, the apologists for them are left with
only some reified “theory” of criminality (which
upon analysis turns out to be racist or elitist) to
justify the dire consequences for those who are pun-
ished.

When the condtions that determine who is pun-
ished are understood, the modern trial proves to

have little more to do with justice and truth than
the older trial by ordeal. We simply have more so-
phisticated forms of irrationality in our courts today_

Legitimizes oppression

Now, what of the criminal code (C.C.) in Canada?
It is the “body of law” that in its present or amend-
ed form will legitimize the political use of police
against the new reform movement.

Consistent with the conservative nature of our
courts, and the lack of effective civil liberty protec-
tions, is the astonishing repressiveness of parts of
the C.C.

The political laws which exist as a threat or
which can be applied harshly show the ‘“tautology
of authority” in the capitalist nation state in which
we live. As long as people act within the authority
system, and accept its rhetoric uncritically, they

are said to be “free.” As long as they use the so-

called “proper channels” (which change over time
to the advantage of elites), they have “rights.”
When people begin to question, and, more import-
ant, to evaluate the conditions that underlie author-
ity and the consequences of the use of that authority
(when they become intelligent, that is), laws exist
to oppress them.

It is a self-perpetuating system; conservative
and latently reactionary by its very structure. It is
not democratic, except in rhetoric, since it does not
ensure that people have real controls over the chang-
ing conditions that affect them.

' The police are often the instruments of political
oppression, though it is a mistake to believe (as
many seem to) that it is the “mentality of the cops”
per se that leads to such oppression. It is crucial to
understand the ideology and controls that ensure
that police are reliable for this task. As bureaucrats
in a corporation must actually believe, absolutely, in
what they do, to do it efficiently, so too police must
also possess totally uncritical beliefs. “Law and or-
der” must be reified, much as the idea of “God”’
has been in past periods.

We can get an indication of police ideology by
studying a 273 page “book” that RCMP personnel
possess. It is sort of a handbook. What past RCMP
Commissioner Wood ecalled “this series of lectures”
(the authors are unidentified, though several peo-
ple, including Diefenbaker are credited with assis-
tance) in the introduction can give us the needed
insight into the police beliefs that ensure that the
tautology of authority operates when reform move-
ments begin to show success.

I will concentrate on a sampling of statements to
show the police beliefe that complement the use of
police for political oppression. '

“Freedom” is of course the call word. Our so-
ciety does everything—fought “two terrible wars”,
entered Korea and joined NATO—“to guard against

BREAD AND WATER s
1S THE BREAD AND BUTTER

OF A ‘LAW-AND-ORDER’ ELITE,

the ever growing danger of a tyranny such as the
world has never known.” What the tyranny is is not
clear, but it is better propaganda if left unintellig-
ible at this stage in the “book.”

The “forward” clearly established that ‘“we” are
the good guys. It also establishes the use of an irra-
tional language about crime,

“Crime is contagious and infectious. Contact
with criminals, the taint of criminal atmos-
phere, makes more criminals; too often the
new recruit to the ranks of the evildoers is
involved before he is aware and offends be-
fore he knows that he is erring; then the
downward path is easy.”

Worded in a more rational way with some argu-
ment involved, this statement could suggest that
criminal socialization and recidivism result from
penal subcultures, which is the case; but, since the
book includes a large discussion of political laws,
this irrational statement serves as a basis for the
“conspiracy theory” that is central to police ideol-
ogy. This conpiracy theory, which pervades the
media and government as well as the police, goes
like this:

Contact with subversives is what leads to
reform movements. Since this society is pro-
gressing there is no need for such movements.
People have no intelligence by which to make
sense of their own experience, and act to
change conditions. Those in authority know
what is best for the people.

Could the authoritarian setup of police forces
themselves lead many policemen to protect their
own dependency on rigid authority and leadership
into a conspiracy theory of social movements?

Their own forced dependency certainly comple-
ments their unquestioning belief in conspiracies.
Arresting “the leaders” is thus justified as being
both in the interests of “public order” and “the
common good.” It is even good for the people led
astray. It is indeed an insular self-fulfilling ideo-

logy.

Police as judges

The “book” is built on rhetoric, not on historical
evidence. It opens with i

‘““Canadian democracy is real and vibrant,
pulsating with the life-blood of a young na-

tion, and has its roots in the rich heritage of

the post. But our democratic way of life is
threatened, both by active forces within and
from outside, and by an all-too-often passive
state within. Have we the will to survive, both
as a nation and as a democracy?”

And of course, “law and order” is emphasized
as the backbone of Canadian democracy; ‘‘where
the law-enforcement agencies are the friends of all
law-abiding citizens.” And, of course, the RCMP
knows the true meaning of “law” and of “order”:

“Qur ideas, which time and experience have
proved to be generally sound....” i

Here is the first example of how the police, con-
trary to all rhetoric about all citizens being equal be-
fore the law, are trained to see themselves as judges.
The Court judge is quite secondary to the judge-
ments made by the police when they interpret be-
havior as criminal or not.

Democratic and totalitarian societies are later

distinguished as follows:

' “In Canada the stafe is the servant of the
individual; in other forms of government the
_individual is the servant of the state.”

The speaker of the House of _Commons; from

whom this is quoted, i
dialectics of absolute
sive categories always
study. A society can be
tarian democracy”, as
RCMP book wants to |
sessive thinking in its
spond as desired. i

The ideology of
basic to the view of fr:
and punishement whicl
Take these quotes:

@® “The law gua
limiting the libe;

@ “Liberty, witl
has within itself

@® “Man’s taste
straint may cause
license, but the a
derly existence ai
maintenance of o

@® ‘Private ente
to the public are
mocracy when exi

And, again, of cour:
pose this order and dis
“self-imposed discipline’
son signs a social contra

“restrict liberty for the

Law, law in abstract
of license and the frien
abding citizens,” and th
simple as that.

If truth is thought
policeman can certainly
trary, uncritical of hil

- against “law breakers.”

Justifying

Hobbes, Locke and
their ideas while bourge
alism, have had their i
philosophies of free-entx

Though the free-ente
never did exist, these q
ther original function o
'social relations in capita

. According to them,
‘basically aggressive ar
Freedom is indivdualist
ence if not controlled.

So law enters the pic
individualistic freedom
individualistic freedom.
enforce the Low do so fo
emphasis on “Order” is
individualistic conflict.

So we end up with a
