PaGe 6

'CHARLOTTETOWN, P. E. 1.

FEBRUARY 20, 1970

A THREE-RING CIRCUS
OF THE MIND

When Juel Cook, the last remaining Black Pan-
ther field worker was here, he did something that
to my knowledge hasn’t been done before at UPEL
He laid a rap on us.

As is usual with anyone who speaks to the stud-
ent body with passionate conviction, he was very
well applauded. And as is usual with anyone who
wanted more response than the collision of one hand
with the other, he didn’t get it.

The role he was hoping that the 400 or so peo-
ple in Duffy would fulfill would be to give a little
money to what Rocky Jones called “The brothers
on the front lines.” Out of that ecrowd they got
about $25.00.

They’re trying to raise $6 million for bail. That
wouldn’t bail a guy out of city jail for jaywalking.

The reasons for the abrupt split between ap-
plause and response are interesting:

One was surely the fact that few if any students
come from a cultural background of violence, hat-
red and oppression, and couldn’t really get on the
man’s wavelength. Not that you have to be a poor
black from Oakland or Watts to understand the rea-
son for the Panthers emergence on the American
scene. For example, magazines like Ramparts and
the Guardian, (The Guardian — from New York),
and books like The Autobiography of Malcolm X,
Gene Marine’s The Black Panthers, and the works
of Franz Fanon and Eldridge Cleaver give some
background to black ghetto experience.

The inability of a majority of middle-class
whites to believe that policemen can kill people for
little or no reason, and then escape prosecution be-
cause of the machinery of “justice’” is definately a
stumbling block to comprehension.

A closer to home example of typical police men-
tality is found in the survey taken in Quebec where
the police were found to dislike “hippies” more than
they dislike criminals. And it is indisputable that
many white cops have a similar if more violent pre-
judice to blacks.

Certainly no one pretends that black people are
never violent, never ‘let their rhetoric get carried
away with itself—but they have been oppressed on

he continent and especially in the United States of
erican for hundreds of years. They are a colonial
people of the run-away monster USA.

There were the usual bright-eyed idealists who
questioned Cooks philosophy of violence, who ac-
used the Panthers of racism even though Cook tried
o emphasize that “it is a class struggle nqt a race
struggle.”” Many expounded the old bullshit SNCC
passive resistance theory.

Of course the fact that the University commun-
ty reduces every struggle big or little to an intel-
lectual abstraction in which the catch phrases and
superficial ‘appearances are bandied about without
any assimilation of their gpirit and motives, dooms
any effort before it starts.

The large crowd was obviously looking to be
santertained. Juel would have been a bigger hit if
he had come with a black beret, a submachine gun
and a bandolier of bullets.

—Hornby

The Cadre
pditor/buffoon: jim hornby

o 1 menial: dennis mackay
ailings/profundty: martin kenny, garybear
ren assistance: the mysterious layouter
olumns/waste: megaughey, karl m, agamemnon id
ock tock: dave mitchell :
eporters: very funny
bhotos: hornby and mackay
yping: various token women
ewd behavior: captain bearheart
ndecent exposure: the bear party
nspiration: the pusherman

artin deserted the forte for new york where he will prae-
ice his joe buck routine: dennis is ratso from afar( the best
wva to take him we find) while in the office staffers come
ind go talking of michelangelo (i made that up: tgley dont
eally) the secret southport agent snuck in a few nights for
Luickies. wendy and gail typed one night whilst terry was
uthlessly efficient. captain bearheart walked qroun_d with
ts fly down to the delight of mcgaughey who just idolizes
such cheap hypes. well thats showbiz fokes. keaveny was
hilked for about $6 by crafty hornby—better known as grafty
\rotection money for the darling of the press. you do_get
ather tired of typing up your own crap _for the foqrth night
n a row. next week we absolutely positively promise a new
 reate canadian novel, gross cartoons and (below all) the
»ar manifesto. cross our bearheart and hope to die!

“. ..and did you voluntarily accept a free, hot meal from
known Black Panthers at nine a.m., February nine, nineteen

hun’ert an’ seventy ?”

Hdo e

There are two things which bother me about
the Sir George Williams Computer affair which
were pointed out by the speakers from Sir George
who visited the Campus recently. They were never
mentioned in the local press nor national news me-
dia, yet they are both very important. The first
one is the make up of the jury by which the students
are to be tried. The second one is the refusal of
either the provincial or the federal government to
allow a full scale government investigation into the
matter.

It is a basic principle of Anglo-saxon justice

that a man shall be tried by his peers. Yet of the
candidates for jurymen in the trial not one of the
candidates were black. Surely there are enough
black people in Montreal to allow for having some
of them on the jury. Also the jury in general were

middle aged. Can it be said that these students are

going to get a fair trial.

It is also interesting to note that the average
bail for black students was $4,000 and for the white
students only $1,5007 |

Because of the conflicting statements made by
the police and members of the Sir George Williams
administration it is quite clear that the fact have

not all been brought out. While the black students

are willing to accept their responsibility for certain
events they have persistently called for a full scale
investigation of the matter but have been refused
this by both the federal and provincial government.
Why ? I personally believe that it is not merely the
black students who are on trial here but Canadian
society which is being charged with blatant racism.
Canada is on trial also, and University and govern-
ment officials want the whole thing swept under
the rug as quickly as possible. And at what cost is
“justice” passed on 42 black students. :

February 26 is a national day of solidarity with
the Sir George students. I would urge that the mat-
ter be discussed by council and if it seess fit, some
form of action should be taken to show support for
the demands being made by the Black students at
Sir George. ‘

A telegram of support — requesting an inves-
tigation — seems to be in order. |

pon.”

Down in black & white

Reply and fugue

I do not like the editorial we reprinted for
Carolyn Dgffy on page 7. The reasons she quotes
me as hav1qg given were somewhat rhetorical, al-
though I think that they can be quite easily justi-
fied — except for “fascist,” which was ‘probably in
reference to some things I have heard Miss Clancy
(the outhor of the piece) say, and as such are not
germane to this discussion.

Firstly, I felt that it was naive in its conception
of the womens liberation movement. The movement,
as } see it, consists of women redefining their role
in society as something other than another instru-
men’t of man’s gratification — a sexual object for
man’s use.

_The image of a woman going to university
mainly to catch a husband, or to get a job to sup-

- port her until she can; of women being nurses but

not doqtors, teachers but not principals, etec. This
image is largely the responsibility of women, and
the women’s liberation movement is trying to change

_it. These people are not a bunch of slightly buteh,

repressed potential old maid stereotypes, who have
no sex appeal and are bitter about it: they merely
want to define themselves as equal to men, instead
of having equality a rare and (literally) remarkable
occurrence.

Janiel Jolley, the SFU protest candidate in the
Waterloo Lutheran Winter Carnival Queen pageant,
is an example of the rebellion against the Playboy-
image of women as cattle whose worth is judged by
externals.

As far as snobbish goes, I think the reference
to people being unwashed and “exuding a peculiar
odor” needs no amplification.

Smugness is indicated in Miss Clancy’s totally
unfounded assumption that she presents a threat to
the radical movement and would thus be “the first
to face the firing squad.” The statement that “We
bourgeoisie pigs are safe as long as (the radical
movement’s) growth is numerical and not intellec
tual” also strikes me as smug. :

Her opinion that radicals who call themselves
Marxists don’t really know what Marx was writing
about, strikes me very funny, coming, as it does,
from one who has told me that she is a “Trudeau
phile”. Her own knowledge of Marx or anything
radical has never struck me as being anything out
of the ordinary — which is to say, practically noth-
ing. This opinion is certainly uninformed.

I call the article intellectually dishonest because
it is so convinced of its righteousness, when it dis-
plays a frighteningly superficial view of the situa-
tion it is purporting to describe. . ‘

As I have indicated, I don’t feel that the ar-
ticle is very important. What is important is that
Miss Duffy took the time to express her views. The
importance of the view one expresses is, at this early
stage in the development of UPEI, secondary to the
fact of the expression itself.

Dialogue is surely the thing we need most if we
are ever going to develop.

CPUNCIL QUOTE OF THE WEEK
Keaveny: “What’s the motion ?”’
MacKay (acting chairman): “Well...
Everyone knows what the motion is.”

Black Panther
carryin’ what he imagines could be a concealed lethal wea-

