PAGE 2

_ Decemser 5, 1969

el ] F
editorial
THE STUDENT AND HIS COMMUNITY

There comes a time in the life of every
man in every generation when he is finally
compelled by his conditions to question the
bases and assumptions, the implications and
the possibilities of his life, his beliefs, his ac-
tions, and his future. If there was ever a time
for this, it must be today. Never has the
world been faced with so many problems. Of
course we have made progress in a material
way, but these advances seem to have merely
helped outline more clearly the contradiction

upon which we live.

How many students and faculty have
asked such questions as “What do we do with
our lives?”, “What alternatives do we have?”,
or “What is the quality and character of our

society ?”

The answers I received when I asked
these questions did not make me happy. One
of my professors read a report on youth in
class the other day which said the young
people did not have much hope in the future.
Well, how the hell could they? — just look
around at our polluted, hysterical, mentally-

diseased world.

Our society is a drab and dreary mono-
tonous grey which wastes our potential and
crushes our spirit. I come from King’s Coun-
ty: P.E.L, and I see there many people who
do not live, but exist. Just open your eyes
and you can see the failings of our society,
both in a material and mental sense. Look
into the eyes of these people, and you can see
helplessness and dispair. '

Basically we are confronted ‘with an ap-
palling paradox — a supreme irony — in that
on one hand there is the reality of suppres-
sion, deprivation, secareity, and suffering;
while on the other there is the possibility of
material plenty, spiritual recreation, human
liberation, and self-realization.

While things do not look bright for the
future, there is still the possibility that they
can be. We, as students, can do something
about it — we have a responsibility; to our
parents, to our children, and to ourselves, to

do something about it.

You can start off by merely talking and
looking at the world around you — your uni-
versity is only a small part of the world.

—MacKay

The Cadre

The CADRE is published by and for the University of
Prince Edward Island Student’s Union. The opinions herein
expressed are those of the writers. Member of the Canad-
an University Press and an agent of social change. All
letters to the editor must be signed by the author(s), al-
though a pseudonym will be printed upon request. Office
is on the first floor of the Student Union Building, 285
Kent St. Phone (902) 894-9585. Our first year of existence.

Editor-in-chief: Jim Hornby

twas brillig as it ever gets an merry wert the fruitflies.
many were the minstrel voices loudly raised in song. gleeful
was the cutline writer who thinks that hes a author. by
happenstance (and that’s quite a stance — try it yourself
if you dont believe me) nancy was rodrigues editor, arcupp-
ing all over the place. made the most awful mess you ever
eye-balled. funny you should arsk maniaced hornby to giggy,
whose presence was felt, dont look at mackay tho. dave
piped up on several occasions and this is tuesday or is it
monday i should know im in arts. keeping an eye on offic-
jous maclean whose trying to staffed brenda, but we’ll see
what develops when we get a darkroom. anybody out there
know how to type, or even tipple (dont mind if i do). this
goes down in history as shameless sunday as stuff was
stolen from all over: pix from museryeloyolanewsnot to men-
tion r cobb who is really a 49-year old commie junkie per-
vert in the employ (and thats quite a ploy—try it youretc.)
of the fbi. sorry bout last week caroma things got censored-
up all around. as for the grate canuck novel, algy n alice
logged a few miles down-river relatting seamy ancedotes
about wild man fischer reading bored of the rings, and doing
the dirty boogie. if you want more than that, yule (what?)
have to buy the book. amen to that freres an endit

]

CHARLOTTETEWN R E. L

mailstrom

PARKING SON’S DISEASE

My mother is being victimized by the adminis-
tration of the would-be University of Prince Ed-
ward Island. :

If she does not present herself promptly to the
Business Office, she will be “further embarassed”,
according to a certain A. J. MacLeod. This was the
first communication received from Mr. MacLeod
concerning a parking violation “on this campus”.
The letterhead indicates only the University of
Prince Edward Island and indicates no particular
campus. There are two, Mr. MacLeod.

Concerning the “further embarassment”, some-
one has already displayed an appalling lack of sen-
sitivity by addressing the letter to Miss Helen Stet-
son, a lawfully wedded mother of four. That some-
one should be sued for slander malicious gossip and
defamation of character.

Get off our backs! Aren’t you carrying your
boorish games far enough by continually threaten-
ing U.P.E.L sutdents with all sorts of indignities?
Fascism has always been difficult to control once
rampant, but surely the element of our heavily
policed university needn’t engulf our families as
well as ourselves. Why not concentrate on making
this scarcely bearable situation, namely U.P.E.L

less bearable which seems to be your only function. -

1t is difficult to justify a police force on any
campus, especially a university as stagnant, docile
and non-directed as the UP.EI Get off my fam-
ily’s back. If you insist on playing your chicken-
shit games, do so in some more meritorious sphere.
Go beat up old ladies at the K-Mart. That should
keep you busy and satisfied.

The security force of the U.P.E.I should hold
its collective breath while waiting for the payment
of this ticket.

—Kent Stetson

cCUS

Dear Editor:

The dissolution of the Canadian Union Stud-
ents is a serious loss for Canadian students. It is
a loss for the labour and progressive movements

in Canada. CUS was the largest and most influen-
tial youth organization in Canada.

CUS reflected and to some extent led the in-
creasing democratic upsurge of the students in Eng-
lish- speaking Canada. The dissolution of CUS re-
flects the weaknesses of a democratic movement
which la,ckgs clear, stable class-conscious leadership.

CUS was attacked from the right because it re-
flected and attempted to organize the democratic
upsurge of the students. The big business owned
press and news media in Canada deliberately, con-
sistently, sometimes subtly, other times not so
subtly and too often successfully, worked to isolate
leading student organizations, including CUS from
the students. Distortion was the main tool of the
monopoly press. :

At the same time and increasingly, CUS was
weakened by the ultra-“left”’, whose elitism and
political opportunism assisted those who wished to
isolate CUS. The failure of CUS leaders to place
confidence in the students, to lead the students into
action, their frequent substitution of left phrase-
ology and verbosity for active leadership all objec-
tively served the right to distor the issues and fin-
ally, to liquidate CUS. ¢

While CUS has been liquidated, student prdb—
lems have not. Indeed, the spectre of unemployed
graduates today haunts the campuses as a result
of the government’s austerity program. A Canad-
ian government which remains wedded to U.S. and
Canadian big business spells disaster for the future
of education and the country. A Canadian Union of
students fighting for the students, joining the la-
bour and anti-monopoly movements of the Canad-
ian people, is a vital need. Progressive students
should carry the fight to reorganize and reconstruct
the national union of students.

Charles MacFadden, Secretary
Young Communist Leagu¢
