CHARLOTTETOWN, P.E. I.

PAGE 5

- Fesruary 20, 1970

is obviously ignorant of the
categories. Mutually exclu-

s break down upon critical

e validly defined as a ‘“totali-
s an example. Clearly the
establish simplistic, and ob-
, personnel, so they will re-

‘pgssessive- iildividualism” is
reedom and order, and crime
h is presented in the book.

ards the liberties of each by
rty of all.”

th its avoidance of restraint,
the seeds of license.”

- of liberty and dislike of re-
se some to go from liberty to
wverage person desires an or-
ind is willing to share in the
order.”

srprise, initiative, and service
» always commended in a de-
cistence is thus well ordered.”

rse, it is the police who im-
scipline — sometimes called
” in the book as if each per-
act with the police at birth to
e common good.”

. that is, is “the sworn enemy

nd and protector of all law-
he police enforce it. It is as
i /

to be that simple, then the
- feel justified in being arbi-
imself, and even “militant”

competition

. Rousseau, who developed
eoisie developed out of feud-
ideas reified into the quasi-
erprise capitalism.

erprise society does not, nor
quasi-philosophies still serve
»f justifying the competitive
alism societies. :

there is the “Individual”’—
nd asocial—who is “Free.”
tic and liberty is thus lic-

cture. Law ensures that this
doesn’t infringe on other’s
 Those who determine and
or the “Common Good.” The
. the logical outcome of this

, double-talk; quite unrelated

{
|

to human beings (who are interdependent from
birth to death) and in contradiction to any historical
or sociological study of authority, power and ideol-
ogy, which cloaks the distortion of human beings
within capitalist and other authoritarian societies.

Possessive individualism, has a corollary of an
authoritarian moralism which poses as a self-sac
rificing public service ethic.

Though a competitive ethic dominates the so-
cety, force, police force if necessary, is required
to to control the conflict resulting from the exploit-
ation, and attempts to end exploitation, in the mar-
ket place.

The policeman is trained to view himself as such
a public servant. It rationalizes his work and gives
a meaning to his life.

Since many police recruits are from the lower

classes, they can compensate for their frustrated
status needs, and reconcile the dissonance between

. the free-enterprise rhetoric and their actual lack of

opportunity by becoming such a public servant.

They see themselves as having status, and suc-
cess. The are also self-sacrificing, even a bit
martyred for others.

Look at the following quotes taken from the
selection on the policeman in the RCMP book:

® To be a policeman “requires skill, intelli-
gence, forebearance and compassion to live
one’s own life within the law, yet it requires
much more than these to apply that law...to
the acts of others.

Once again we see the simple equation of com-
formity and good. The policeman must just be that
much better than others. Such a Superman self im-
age can justify almost anything—sadism and bru-
tality included. Giving the police such a view of

“intelligence” makes the ‘“law-breaker” almost
sub-human. !
@® The Policeman needs “...comprehension

of democratic philosephy .. intelligence .. (to)
study, understand and interpret laws...”

The “philosopher cop”

What occurs to me is the image of a “Philoso-
pher-Cop” (not unlike Plato’s Philosopher King),
viewing society and other humans in a detached
and objective way; enforcing laws according to their
“True” interpretation. ;

Again words that suggest “being smart” have
immense power for those not upwardly mobile, yet
who possess all the values of such mobility.

@® The policeman needs “..strength of char-
acter. . .(he must) resist the many human im-
pulses excusable in the private citizen but dis-
astrous to the policeman, requires not only
self-control but an understanding of the
short-comings of others.”

Here is the self-sacrificing, all-understanding po-
liceman. A combination of paternalism, moralism
and authoritarianism is nurtured both to ensure
that the recruit will not rebel against his restric-
tive job and will impose the laws on others unques-
tioningly. People with a history of abuse and neg-
lect often fit well into this submissive-authoritarian
role. ;

@ The policeman needs “..understanding. ..
tolerance. . .physical excellence. . .bravery and
heroism. . .courage...”

The policeman is getting closer and closer to the
male stereotype that has dominated the society,
and which fits so nicely the needs of a militaristic

and regimented system |

@ His is “..The true desire to serve the pub-
¢ lic—A belief in the worthiness of mankind—

a desire for variety and adventure and the

spiritual need for self-sacrifice for the bene-
. fit of other people.”

The highest good, doing for others. It is amaz-
ing how a self-sacrificing self image, for one iden-
tifying so totally with authority, making only
pseudo-choices (within the law), not moral choices
about the effects of what he does for other people,
can maintain such a self view. The double-talk that
operates for police about “freedom and order” also
works at another level, the very center of person-

ality.

Cdntradictory theory '

With possessive individualism and authoritarian-
moralism “established” the “book” goes on to dis-

cuss the causes and prevention of, and punishment
for crime.

' Criminology is used in a reified, anti-intellectual
manner. “Police forces practice crime prevention”,
and the raising of “young citizens”, not “young
criminals” also helps. Deterrence and rehabilitation
(“represson” anid “repressive tolerance”) are mixed
into a self contradictory theory of punishment.

Next we get a 40-page summary of treason, sedi-
tion, communism, fascism, and national socialism.
It has the same assumptions of many university
courses taught by those intimidated by McCarthy-
ism, though the blatant statement of them would
never succeed in passing as value-free social science,
even to the most indoctrinated students. Order is
again the main emphasis. Order and civilized (ver-
sus primitive) societies are even equated.

And the inevitable contradiction within mono-
poly capitalsm is exposed. The “State”, not the
“Individual” now becomes important per se.; Sedi-
tion helps to preserve “The tranquility of the state.”

The political oppression of the police is thus “jus-
tified” not by some quasi-humansm but by a
pseudo-totalitarianism. Humanist rhetoric might
even subvert the RCMP if it was articulated clearly.

Mention is made of the conviction of R. B. Rus-
sell, a leader of the Winnipeg strike (1919) for
sedition:

“While there was no evidence produced at his
trial to show that Russell was a Communist...
still his speeches showed that he believed and
advocated the principles of revolution adopted
by the Communists.”

Here is an example of how policy ideology re-

duces specific to its own metaphysics. And this is

aided by the same old double-talk: “no evidence. ..
that he was a Communist. . .still his speeches show-
ed that he believed and advocated the principles
adopted by the Communists”.

According to the “book” sedition protects socie-
ties from “outside influences. ..suppressing all ac-
tivites” which would lead to “civil war and anar-
chy.” “Every serious minded citizen” should assist
in “erradicating this menace to his way of life, his
home, his freedom of thought and his country.”

The wording almost incites the true believer in
the conspiracy theory to go out and kill himself a
commie for the good of mankind. It never ceases
to shock me how words can be conditioned to such
irrationality, with no valid meanings whatsoever.

After this, communism and fascism are both de-
fined as totalitarian, and arguing from general,
tautological principles, to specifics about history
the simplistic conspiracy theory is again perpetu-
ated. Any possible understanding of the history of
Europe since the turn of the century is destréyed.
“Fellow travellers” are implicated in the plot, and
again the policeman becomes the true protector of
peace, law and order. i

Then there is the task of controlling riots. Doing
his duty of breaking strikes, protest demonstrations
or whatever, “criticisms, and there will always be
some, will be levelled at him. He must be big enough
to accept these without faltering.”

He can do no wrong, for he is carrying out the
“law.” And, anyway, he is a better human than the
“rioters.” He also has great “degrees of freedom”
in his approach, and is confident and protected by
his modern equipment. The law gives him immense
protections against “rioters”, and he is again told
that it is “the actions of a few” that endanger the
rights of the many.

The “book” concludes on the same note it began,
and with the same irrational language about
“crime”.

“The field of crime is not static, and no agency
engaged in combating this insidious and con-
tagious disease can afford to be static. In

these days the impact of crime upon society |

and subversive efforts to deprive us of our
hard-won freedoms and democratic principles
is of importance to us all.”

I

Civil disobedience.

‘I know of no instance where those who identify
so totally with conservative authority have aided in
the ongoing struggle to put social institutions in the

control of people.

Though the RCMP book emphasizes the vote as
basic to democracy, police ideologists handily forgot
that it took forms of civil disobedience to win the
franchise for the working people.

CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE AND REFORM
STRATEGY

The liberal rhetoric that cloaks the authoritarian-
ism of this society appears to have immense power

over the population, including the student reform-
ers themselves.

Underneath their own radicalism there seems to
be a naive belief in the ability of this society to pro-
gress. Often what appears as “miltancy” also turns
out to be naive.

It is not that their experience isn’t radicalizing
them, for it is. It is their lack of understanding of
the latent power of the state, that keeps them naive.

What I suggest may serve to undercut some of
this naivete and help build a historical foundation
on which to build a viable militancy in the student
movement. My conclusions, interestingly, turn out
to be much the same as those made by Thoreau a

hundred years ago. Here is what he wrote about
laws:

“I think that we should be men first, and subjects
afterword. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect
for the law, so much as the right. . .Law never made
men a whit more just; and, by means of their res-
pect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made
the agents of injustice.

“A common and natural result of an undue res-
pect for law is that you see a file of soldiers. . .
marching in admirable order over hill anl dale to the
wars, against their wills, ay, against their common
sense and conscience...The mass of men serve the

state thus, not as men mainly, but as machines, with
their bodies.

“They are the standing army, and the militia,
jailers. constables, etc...others—as most legislatures,
politicians, lawyers, ministers, and officeholders —
serve the state chiefly with their heads; and as they

rarely make any moral distinctions, they are as

likely to serve the Devil, without intending it, as
God...”

I would add “academics” to the list of those who
now serve the state chiefly with their heads. And I
would suggest that the power of the state is far
greater in monopoly capitalism, and far more op-
pressive, than when Thoreau lived. I question the
strategic worth of civil disobedience in the face of
this system which links laws, police ideology and
elite power in such a fashion that oppression of re-
form movements is so integrated.

Where a system is so integrated that rhetoric re-
mains credible to those conforming; and oppression
of reformers can be “legalized” in the eyes of those
unaffected, long-range planning for a thorough so-
cial revolution seems the only just thing to do.

Jim Harding, formerly a graduate student at Simon
Fraser university in British Columbia was a teach-
ing assistant at the University of Saskatchewan un-
til last fall when his contract was not renewed.

Canada’s criminal code gives law officers and
‘, court officials the right to oppress minorities
and stifle reform movements.

