Pace 8 UNIVERSITY OF PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND : S ~ FeBruary 20, ,1970'

Hi there, 'm your friendly

conscious agent of American

Imperialism,

And I'm here to show you a
foreign policy to protect you
| and your loved ones.

It covers you and your
family in 3 ways...

1) Planned Perpetual Underdevelopment

If you’re in the $40 a year bracket you sure don’t want to
risk that paycheck for a revolution! By encouraging and
financing safe and sane military governments AMERICAN
EMPIRE (c) provides law and order at a low resource and
labour premium.

2) Culfural and Economic Control and Influence

If you're a country on the move, in the swing of what’s 4
happening and you just don’t want to be bothered about all
those little icky budgetary problems like ownership, hand
the keys over to AMERICAN EMPIRE (c) Foronly a small -
drain on your national resources we’ll provide the kind of
- security and luxurious you’ve become accustomed to having.

pemi ) o

if you’re in a hurry ey
and these two are unsatisfactory :

—try —

3) Napalm

- Our latest development thought up by our researchers, in
the tradition of such past plans as the atomic bomb, germ
warfare, the M-1, and as far back as the Cavalry Charge
and the Bowie Knife. If you’re the impatient type and can’t
wait the 50 or so years it takes for AE’s (¢) other plans
to work, then napalm is what you’re looking for. This cov-

" erage is the kind that sticks with you and keeps on yielding
effectively even if your home is destroyed by fire or some
other disaster.

So if you think that you’re in line for our coverage and even if you don’t why not see your con-
scious agent today? He’s really not such a special guy. He probably lives next door, plays golf,
or football with his kids- Maybe he’s your local cop, or teaches your kids. See him today. He’s
real friendly. Or drop into the friendly American Empire (c) office in your nearest country.

THE
American

Empire o
CANADA LTD.

Washington. Ottawa. London. Lisban. Madrid. Rome. Bonn. Bern. The Hague. Copenhagen. Brussels. Vienna. Oslo. Dublin.
Canberra. Saigon. Manilla. Bangkok. Seoul. Rangoon. Kuala Lumpur. Taipei. New Delhi. Tel Aviv. Karachi. Joha esshurg.
Lagos, Salisbury, Brazilia. Buenos Aires. Quito. Panama City. Lima. Bogota. Santiago. Mexico City, Tegucigalpa. San Juan.
Guantanamo. Paris. Vientiane. Caracas. and many, ‘many more to serve you.

