; I’\U rry up p|ease ’it’s

;‘CHARLQTTETGWN, P.E.I

FILMS SET FOR |
SUNDAY NIGHT

by rick hancox

Late afternoon. A man stands in a field moan-
ing, “I’'m unhappy. I’m unhappy, I'm so unhappy...”

Up walks a second man, beaming, and hands
him something so small the eye misses it.

“Here’s Happiness,” smiles the second man.

The first man grasps it, then runs off into the
sunset, shouting. “I'm happy! I'm happy! I’m so
happy! I'm...” :

That’s a film. A short film. It’s titled appro-
priately enough ‘“Happiness” and in its 55 second
entirety it’s the briefest of the short-films series,
“The Kinetic Art,” scheduled to open its three pro-
gram series Sunday night in the Duffy Amphi-
theatre.

The longest film in the KINET ART series is
one of the most absorbing: Peter Whitehead’s 55-
minute ‘“Tonight Let’s All Make Love in London”,
with its dazzling colour camerawork, it revealing
portraits of Julie Christie, Michael Caine, Mick
Jagger of the Rolling Stones, and novelist Edna
O’Brien.

Why “KINETIC”? Why the Kinetic “ART”?
First of all film-making is an “art” as much as
music, writing, or drama, but what makes it dif-
ferent from painting or still photography, for ex-
ample, is that it is constantly moving — it is
KINETIC.

Each of the 26 films in the KINETIC ART ser-
ies demonstrates this fascinating element of film,
while at the same time providing hilarious comedy,
superb drama, and all-round great entertainment in
all styles — cartoons, documentaries, dramatic, ex-
perimental, and underground.

Take for example “Live in a Tin Can”, by
Bruno Bazzeto — twenty minutes of alternately
hilarious and satirical counterpoint, pitting life in
its monotonous and familiar reality against rare
moments of escape into fantasy.

Or the black comedy of bizarre combat in an
antique carnival setting in “Rakvickarna”, which
~critics describe as ‘“defying description . . . there
has never been a film like this before.”

Other challenges to one’s sense of sight and
sound scheduled for Sunday night’s opening include
“Phenomena”, by famed film-maker Jordan Belson,
of San Francisco; “Cruel Diagonals”” — a searingly
dramatic post war episode; and the hilarious film
joke “Why Did You Kiss Me Awake”.

Choose the Sunday night performance you wish

to attend — 7:30 or 9:30, but come early if you -

have not already purchased a ticket. The Kinetic
Art Committee reports about 60% of the Duffy
Amphitheatre has already been sold out. If you are
not able to obtain a ticket either today or Saturday,
we suggest you try and make the 7:30 performance
in order to obtain a better seat. Series and single
tickets to the KINETIC ART can still be obtained
from myself or any of the following people: Cathy
Gallant, Denise Levesque, David Aurandt, Kent
Stetson, Carol MacKay, Rowena Hickox, Brian Pol-
lard, Henry Purdy, Anne Putnam, Donna Andrew,
or Peter Graham. ,

Fellow Student: In reply to your repetition in The
Cadre issue dated Nov. 7, 1969, I am sending a
copy to your column for hopeful publication. As far
as the page is concerned, I think it is really some-
thing worthwhile . . . being interested mainly in the
Artistic aspect of things I find it most informa-
tive, and much to my liking . . . we should all say
happily: “Thank you.” ]

, Sincerely, Paul Inman

chosen as I sad:

\\

Hilarious situations and eccentric characters are the hallmark of “2
Grilled. Fiish,” the latest film by the great Japanese cartoonist, Yoji Kuri.
This outlandish, exuberant comedy of the absurd will be one of the 26
films from nine countries included in the KINETIC ART, the three-
~ program film series which will open Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. in the

Duffy Amphitheatre.

FOR SHARON:

Writing is an expression . . . expressing the search
- - - to knowing - - - finding ones self, I think. What
you hope . . . and may - - - what you hope to find is
another part, another side of yourself———what
you find - - - (pause) may be harsh to you. It may
be gentle - - - or it may be something quite impar-

_ tial - - - to you, for one can not really Know.

Thinking - - - n’ lying down, rolling over, n’ over - - -
feeling, has been a good thing for some of us . . .
(pause) yet a damnation to others of us.

Jesus on the cross bleeding:

I have this ‘thing’ ’bout experiences - - - long hair
n’ living: like———having realized oneself ---n’
one’s position as being in the world . . . he can go
on to attain ultimate goals n’ Knowing this,
and his goal (a feeling) in death he shall be re-
warded. : , ;

I have this ‘thing’ ’bout experiences -- - long hair
n’ living: like————me: being . . . having been, one
of the chosen (pause) - - - I look down - - - look over
those of you who, have unfortun'a;terly,\ not been
with a feeling that is

in way damnation.

Were everyone, able to be chosen, able to Know
there would be no need . . . (music softly
passes by as heat wave) for the world ---n’ there
would be no war. '

—Paul Inman |

FORGET THE COLD

Some rain alone on bone

with life asleep in chairs

of stone with open space.

Some sweater has two holes
and your last head sticks out—
“Forget the cold” I shout.

Can heads reach more than arms
while chairs in dreams decide
to dance their bones away?

A mind is being plain

while wood and stone are rain—
the balls of water dﬁmb!
Remember all the wet sweat,
be dry and do not die. ‘
Forget the cold you caught

Dance alot dance alot dance alot.

—Leon Berrouard
