FeBrRUARY 20, 1970

CHARLOTTETOWN, P.E.1."

PaGE' 7

Carolyn Duffy a senior arts student has asked
us to reprint the following editorial from the Picaro
student_newspaper at the all-girls Mt. St. Vincent
University at Rockingham, N.S. Miss Duffy’s com-
ment appears below the article written as an editor-
ial for the January 24th issue of the Picaro. The
author Mary Clancy is Culture Editor of the paper.
(For Editor’s response, see page 6.) :

'© WHISTLE ME THAT AGAIN
‘ by Mary Clancy

Student Radicalism is the in thing. If you
aren’t radical now you’d better jump on the band
wagon before it’s too late. However, there are cer-
tain rules to follow for all devotees of the radical
line. First: All student radicals must have a good
command of the jargon of their particular philoso-
phy ; it is not necessary to understand the philoso-
phy just insert the words into your vocabulary and
use at all times. Second: to be a good radical you
must constantly crap on the government of your
country for small imperfections. It is not safe to
_ criticize the big imperfections because to do this one

must have some knowledge of what one is talking
about. ! gl 8

-~ Although it is not a definite rule most radicals

of this ilk are expected to be unwashed and exude

a peculiar odour. It’s so colorful and shows that you
can’t be influenced by the bourbeoisie habits of our
corrupt system.

The favoured line of most radicals today is the
Marxist brand of socialism. At least that’s what
they claim. Marx might have difficulty recognizing
his words in the mouths of these reformers, but af-
ter all, when one is so concerned with saving the
world from the bourgeoisie mentality one hasn’t
time to read the unexpurgated editions of the Mas-
ter.

'Cané,da in the eyes of these reformers is in a
terrible mess. We are run by the Imperialistic war
mongering capitalist pigs (capitalist pigs are dif-

ferent from us run of the mill fascist pigs because
they already have the money and we are still trying
to get it). Our country is totally dominated by the
American I.W.C.P. However this situation will be

remedied when the revolution comes and all dissen--

ters are liquidated.

You are probably wondering how soon this
- glorious event is going to take place. Well it’ hasn’t
quite been decided yet. Actually it hasn’t gone be-
yond the talk stage yet and at the rate things are
going it never will. You see the most important re-
quirement for a redical is tolerance. Not in the
sense of putting up with the beliefs of others but
_rather in the ability to sit around in smoke filled
rooms for months even years and talk, talk, talk
about all the marvelous things you’re going to do
I you ever get aroun dto it.

Radicalism can really flourish in thisi dreadful
country of ours because we do still maintain a sem-
blance of free speech. As far as I could see no one
has yet been carried off for verbally assaulting the

. government. No one is arrested for singing Maoist
songs or spouting communist propaganda. This is
fine for the present but when the reformers take
over all this shillly shallying will cease. After all
you can’t keep things in order if people disagree

with you. Thus when the glorious revolution comes’

all petty bourgeiosie will be dealt with severely. I
have no doubt that such people as I will be the first
to face the firing squad.

I don’t think it’s necessary to get worried im-
mediately. The rate of progression is so slow that
by the time they take over it should be 2020. Those
of us in our twenties now will be in our seventies
then and probably willing to be shot.

The total picture of the student brand of radic-
alism includes women’s liberation too. This does
not, as you might have thought, include lobbying
for better jobs, higher wages, and the like. Rather
it covers such relevant actions as the right of fe-
males to be voluble in words of four letters. It also

 takes in planning attacks on the editor of McLean’s

“malilstrom

Pantherettes strike
Dear Sir: i ‘

I would like to protest an episode of brutality
which occurred on the UPEI campus on Friday,
February 6th, 1970. The nursing students of the
Prince Edward Island School of Nursing were invit-
ed to participate in the Powder Puff hockey game.

But what we did participate in was guerilla
warfare. We were under the impression that we
would be playing good clean hockey. The girls from
the UPEI team appeared more interested in seeing
many many bones they could break. Perhaps they
heard that the nursing students are in the process.
of taking a First Aid course and the UPEI team

were interested in giving them some practical ex- :

perience.

I wouldn’t think that the girls on the UPEI

team are accus»igomed to using “powder puffs”! Hel-
- mets, mouth pieces, and shin pads are more along
their line. ‘ s ' j g

There were a few hockey players on the UPEI
team who should be called up by the Boston Bruins

to strengthen their fighting force. I'm sure those

~ girls could take on such hockey “policemen” as Pat
Quinn or John Ferguson s,ingle handedly.

1 believe that this brutality calls for some dis-
cipline. May I suggest that a just punishment would
be to send the coach, Vince Mulligan, to the minors
or to the Toronto Maple Leaf team to join the cellar-
dwelling Leafs.

{

The nursing students are quite willing to par-

ticipate in the Powder Puff hockey game next year
if the UPEI girls can find enough girls to form a
team interested in playing good clean hockey.

Yours sincerely,
- Eileen McMillan.
PEI School of Nursing

Attago boys’
Sir:

- The Winter Carnival Committee and all those
involved directly in Carnival planning should be
justly proud of the success of UPEI’s first Winter
Carnival.

Sucecess at. university should not be measured
solely by academic achievement and participation
by students in such activities such as Winter Carni-
val is part of the total education process.

Having attended Winter Carnivals at numerous
campuses, it appears as if UPEI has established a
sound base from which to build future Winter Car-

. nivals. Bohil

Yours truly,
David Blenkhorn,
/ Assistant Professor,

Dept. of Business Administration

Reference works =~
Dear Sir: HR P A
The following books may be consulted in the

President’s Office on the Downtown Campus:
e Guide to Foundations and Granting Agencies‘ ;

" The Grants Register 1969/70 - Postgraduate
awards in the English-speaking world

: ’;Study’Abx;o-ad
~ Awards for Graduate Study and Research
' Foundations’ Manual it

They contain a large -amount.ef:information.
- that is useful to people applying for awards, scholar-

ships, postgraduate fellowships, and research grants.

el

R. J. Baker
ra e President.s

 view of student radicals ...

Magazine because of a fashion that was detrimen-
tal to the image of the liberated women. Unfortun-
ately the editor was unable to come to meet with
these people. No doubt he heard about the plan and
ran screaming back to Toronto.

So the radical movement is alive and well and
growing in numbers. We bourgeoisie pigs are safe
as long as it growthis numerical and not intellectual.

~ tems.

comment

1In a recent discussion with Mr. Hornby regard-
ing the quality of the publications in The CADRE
he challenged me to recommend an alternative. I
chose this article because I felt it confirmed the im-
pressions many have regarding the whole student
radical movement. The Editor’s reaction to the ar-
ticle was interesting. He felt it was ‘“naive, smug,
intellectually dishonest, snobbish, uninformed and
fascist.” Student radicals takes themselves so ser-
iously !

I agree that the tone of the article may be un-
necessarily sarcastic and that it’s not intended to be
a profound statement, but I do feel it makes a valid
point. I agree with Miss Clancy when she says
“Marx might have difficulty recognizing his words
in the mouths of these reformers”. I think that
after one deciphers the codéd jargon you can detect
valid criticisms of social, academic and political sys-
They have helped many become aware of
injustices practised by individuals in all segments
of society and have pointed out the urgency of the
situation. However, the radicals rea impatient and
often hostile. Their methods are self-defeating:
anyone not with them is a ‘“PIG” or is allied with
the “ESTABLISHMENT” hence by convoluted rea-
soning a “FASCIST PIG”. They use all their huff
and puff attempting to blow down the system and
break the back of the establishment. When all has
been reduced to shambles, what then?

I really believe that the act of re-construction
must begin from within the system ; we all can play
a part if we're interested — just give it a chance,
here at UPEI. Now.

—~Carolyn Duffy

why 1s this man smiling?

how can you tell?
