PaGe 4

CHARLOTTETOWN, P. E. 1

JANUARY 21, 1969

The Council Resolution

As most students know by now, the Board of Governors last October
passed resolutions calling for a $100 dollar increase in both reidence and tui-
tion fees. A mass meeting planned for tonight (Wednesday) in the Malpeque
Gym. Questions are being asked as to why this is deemed necessary in the
light of the fact that in the next fifteen years 69 million dollars is slated for
expenditures on the University, 30 million on Holland College and 18 million
dollars for a program of student aid. Many comparisons are being made with
other institutions; many promises have been made. We are presenting the
information we could find in an effort to provide a background to the meet-
ing, at which it is hoped that President Baker, the Deans of Arts and Science,
representatives from the Board of Governors and Education Minister Ben-

nett, will attend.

It is up to you the student to question the priorities the government has
set and get concrete answers to why the Administration intends to take
$327,000 more from the student body than it did this year.

WHEREAS — The action taken concerning the
raise in tuition and residence fees has taken place
without student consultation.

Last October the Board of Governors of UPEI
met and unanimously passed a resolution that will
increase the tuition at this University from $450
to $550 and the Residence fee from the present
675 to $775. For some reason it was decided by
the Board not to make this public. It was approx-
imately a week ago that students began to find out.
No information was given to the Students Council
by the Board or by the President of the University.
When questioned about the action they were going
to take with regards to the fee hike, Council mem-
bers seemed a bit surprised. John Keaveny, Presi-
dent of the Union had not heard anything about the
fee increase. Some students heard a CBCT pro-
gram on which President Baker announced the in-
creases, or from a story in last Thursday’s Journal-

Pioneer.

This type of treatment must not be tolerated
by the students. It is bad enough that students and
their representatives on Council were not consulted,
but to not even be officially informed about the
Board’s action is an insult to the student body.

When asked why the Union was not officially
informed, President Baker said that he felt students
would find out anyway.

WHEREAS — the government’s promised bursary
system hasn’t as yet materialized, and from all in-
formation available isn’t planned to coincide with
the fee hikes.

“The essential ingredients of this program will
include the following:

A program of student aid, including bursaries
and scholarships. The aim will be to have about
1,200 new students participating by the year 1978.
The total cost of this student assistance is estimat-
ed at $18 million over the next ten years.

—Policy Statement on Post-Secondary Education
April 2, 1968

Already the promised system of scholarships
and bursaries is two years late from when it was
promised in the 1968 White Paper. And we have
been told in confidence by a highly knowledgeable
government official that the financial aid system

WILL NOT be in effect for 1970-71.

In a telephone interview, Education Minister
Gordon Bennett said that he was “optimistic” that
the plan would be in effect for next year; he stated
that such a system was in his department’s esti-
mate for the coming year, although he would not
reveal the amount of this figure.

The buck was passed to the Treasury Board
as to whether or not it will be passed — Bennett
said “they decide what we do with the ‘dollars.”
(By way of explanation, a budget submission frpm
the university must pass through seven screening
sessions before it passes. They are, in order, the
Post-Secondary Commission, the Minister of Educa-
tion, the Education Committee, the Government
Budget Committee, the Treasury Board, the Fed-

eral-Provincial Advisory Board, and the Legislative
Assembly of this province.)

Another interesting note is that on CBCT De-
cgmber 5, 1969, Bennett mentioned a plan to pro-
vide $400,000 a year in assistance to post-secondary
studepts. Taken over fifteen years (the ostensible
duration of the plan) that amounts to SIX, not
EIGHTEEN million dollars!

He feels that loans are better than outright
grants. One suggestion that has been made is that
repayment rates on loans be determined by the
earnings of the students after graduation.

That’s fine if you don’t mind debts hanging
over you when you graduate.

G, The only way anything like ‘“universal acces-
ibility” to university, or anything like it, will be
achieved with the economic resources of the people
on the Island considered, is an absolute rock-bottom
level of fees, (if any).

. And even if bursaries and scholarships are
given, not everybody will get one. But everybody
gets the fee hikes.

“...AS I HAVE SAID, PROJECTIONS OF
PRESENT COSTS SUGGEST THAT SUBSTAN-
TIAL INCREASES IN UNIVERSITY REVENUES
ARE GOING TO BE NEEDED, AND IT IS IN-
CREASINGLY CLEAR THAT THESE REVENUES
MUST COME FROM THE PROVINCIAL GOV-
ERNMENT.”

—Policy Statement on Post-Secondary Education
April 2, 1968.

At their last meeting the UPEI Student Council
stated as part of a motion concerning the fee in-
crease that “The students cannot realistically afford
to pay these higher fees due to the economic con-
ditions they find themselves in”. This is a self-
evident fact and almost any discussion is redundant.
Our Government recognizes this, therefore the De-
velopment Plan one must only look at the low per
capita income, lack of employment and the low
wages to see how true the Councils statement was.
Unfortunately the Board of Governors and the Pro-
vincial Government must feel that students must
be somehow apart from the Island community thus
able to take the fee increase in stride. According
to our calculations, allowing for the lack of finan-
cial aid available except the student loan, it will
be very difficult for students to raise the necessary
$1800 - $2000 necessary to attend UPEI next year.
It will cost less than this if you are living at home,
but then you will be allowed less student loan.

Commenting to us on the fee increase, George
Key, Leader of the Island P.C. Party said, “It is a
sad commentary on the establishment of a new uni-
versity of this size, that increase are felt necessary
at this early date.”

WHEREAS — Information concerning the future
of UPEI is not available and hence places the stud-
ent and faculty members in significant jeopardy
concerning his academic future...

Requests for information on planned expendi-
tures and long range plans, are met with refusals

Explained:

“This single university will be on a scale suf-
ficient to enable more Islanders to obtain high
quality education comparable to national stan-
dards.”

—Premier Campbell,
April 2, 1968.

to divulge this information. Rumors are flying, sev-
eral suggest that in 5 or 10 years UPEI will be
phased out in favor of Holland College, that it will
either be a liberal arts wing of the College or the
old St. Dunstan’s board will try to set up SDU again.
Does the Government want Holland College to dom-
minate the University because it trains people who
in the short run will more directly serve the needs
of the Island?

If the Island cannot afford a GOOD university
then let’s get rid of it now and not let it slowly
suffocate over the next 10 or 15 years.

“EVERY THING SECRET DEGENERATES;
NOTHING IS SAFE THAT DOES NOT SHOW IT
CAN BEAR DISCUSSION AND PUBLICIY —

Lord Acton.

WHEREAS — Education is a right and not a priv-
ilege and increasing fees will not only serve to limit
the accesibility of those citizens of P.E.L. to higher
education in their home province. :

In the last paragraph of the Declaration of the
Canadian Student it is stated that “The Canadian
student has the right to be free, to continue his
education without any material, economic or social
barriers, created by the abscence of real equality
of essential conditions.”

What this quote says is merely that education
is a right just like freedom of speech, not a privilege
which is determined by how much money your par-
ents have. .In a survey taken by the Canadian Un-
ion of Students (CUS), in 1965, it was found that
parental income of 25% of the respondents in the
survey was $10,000 whereas the national percentage
of parental income over $10,000 was only 6.1%. The
lower 54%. of the Canadian income earmers, those
earning under $5,000, were the parents of only 28%
of the respondents. While our parents in general
are by no means “well off”, according to Omtario
standards, we must realize that by Island standards
the students who attend university are in general
from the upper middle class families.

Education at present being a privilege is ‘ghe
situation which should exist in a “truly democratic”
society.

When asked whether or not he felt education
was a right or a privilege Bennett said he felt,
“education at the post-secondary level was a priv-
ilege enjoyed by many young people’’, which, in our
opinion is hardly an inspiring or even satisfactory
statement of educational philosophy.

People should not be denied a university
education if they qualify. Therefore, while we are
presently involved in a fight not to have fees go
higher we must realize that our goal is free edu-
cation for anyone who qualifies academically.

with this in mind the UPEISU Inc. formally
requests the following people to be present at a

meeting of the entire student body at 8:00 p.m.
Gym — Malpeque. These People:

REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE BOARD.
PRESIDENT OF UPEI
DEANS OF ARTS AND SCIENCE

S
