Fesruary 20, 1970

CHARLOTTETOWN, P.E. 1.

Pace 3

by Agamemnon Id

“ Ombudsman Alan Doucette has joined ex-Comp-
troller Leo Trainor as Council prima donnas of the
year. First Leo resigned because he was censured
over the SJC incident and now Doucette came out
in a council meeting and said he wouldn’t re-consid-
er his resignation because of publicity he got in the
Charlottetown Garbagecan—in an article he wrote
- and handed in himself-when he resigned at the meet-
~ ing that voted to end the boycott. Reasons for re-
signing were variously given as: an inability to keep
Keaveny from running the meetings; the so-called
damage and mess left by students in the government
building (untrue) ; and his feeling that he lost his
impartiality by inviting students over a microphone
to come to a meeting.
* After Council defeated a motion to accept his
"/ resignation, he agreed to stick out his term. But
Leo has stayed out — leaving Jerry Brimicombe

.with the job at a late date.

The brief lesbian mouth-to-mammary scene in
~ “The Killing of Sister George” was snipped out by
the censor (who lives in New Brunswick by the

way). I guess the reasoning was that mere mortals
couldn’t take such stimulation.

I can imagine what would happen if they brought
in “I Am Curious (Yellow)”. The censor would
probably have a field day with the scissors and
what you would see would take about 5 minutes to
run. \ \
| Apart from which, you may remember that the
Alberta censor is presently up on a morals charge.
Seems there was this 14 year old “chick”....

~ Saturday, February 21 is the date for the hear-
ings in Charlottetown of the Ledain Commission on
the Non-Medical Use of Drugs. Sessions are from
9:00 - 12:00 and 2:00-5:00. Sessions specifically
for University and high school students will be held
from 12:15-2:00. Anyone who wishes to speak
will (within reason) be allowed to, without any
names, recordings, ete. taken. Secrecy is provided.
Notification of formal submission should be
made to a Dean so the Commission can arrange its
schedule. :

The Malpeque Coffee Shoppe is becoming a real

-~ CAMPUS QuUI

IT’S CURTAINS FOR LYNCH

‘The External Vice-President of the Student Un-
ion is sporting a new set of drapes in his office in
the Student Union building on Kent St. According
to John Keaveny, Lynch was not authorized to pur-
chase the drapes, the total cost being $20. Appar-
ently Lynch felt that it would not look very good
for the Student Union if the External Vice-President

 had curtainless windows. : ~

'NOTHING LIKE HINDSIGHT

‘ “It i-s not always easy to evaluate a situation,
especially when it differs radically from what we
have come to consider the norm.

The thought is inspired by the obvious accord
prevailing at the University of P.E.I. between the
student body and the administration. No battles are
being fought on issues weighty or otherwise, no
threats of boycott are heard, no lockouts or sitins;

“in fact such an aura of peacefulness hangs over the
institution that it draws attention by comparison
to other colleges elsewhere.

Crossword Puzzle

Across : Down

We understand students themselves can find
little of which to complain as we have been told they

‘have no compulsory courses, no curfew hours — and

good food. In fact the things we have heard would
make any confirmed radical squirm for the very lack
of material with which to start a campus revolution.
If any such there be in our midst they must be de-
veloping ulcers from sheer frustration.

What caused this change in so short a space of
time? It seems only a few weeks since we watched
placard-carrying students roaming over the Mal-
peque campus, setting up “strike” headquarters and
cutting all classes, and such a short time ago those
from the Downtown campus were marching in force

- on the Legislature. )

Yet today quiet reigns over both to the extent
of recalling the poetic lines “here shall ye see no
enemy but winter and rough weather.”

Perhaps a mere taxpayer should not ask what
happened, just accept the situation thankfully and
be grateful the riots and rebellions of other colleges
find no welcome in our town.”

—_editorial “Evolution of Peace” |

1. Up against the wall, -,
13. Administration response to stud-
ents out of work. (4 wds.) ;
14. Government representatives to the
Students Union. S
15. Lighting up in the presence of
these representatives is a———— .
17. Anyone who reads Readers Digest
is—mm—
- 19. Words like “freak” and “soul” ar

part of the new language of————.

22. Rowed. i :
24. Modern. (Var.)

25. Kill, Boy, Kill. (Abbn.)
/26. Era. ' ¥

27. Place of drugs.

31. On Neolithic hairpieces. (Abbn.)
32. Elect Paul. (Abbn.)

33. Fighting technique.

35. Ocean.

7. Acknowledgement of another’s

87,
superiority. (Mispelled) ;

38. Catch.
41. Dow Chemical.
43. Kringle.

45. Accepts a student’s fees.

46. UPEI students worry most about
tests, money, and: ‘

47. Metallic substance,

49. Station. (Abbn.)

51. Nixon’s AntiChrist.

52. A person who has been helped by
American a1

53, —— ————— Vite, which des-
cribes the lives of pampered students.

56. Prods. ;

57. Faculty association wants more of
the provincial pot (3 wds.)

58. Cereal grain said by some to dull
the minds of the masses.

59. Agent of the ruling classes.

62. Act.

63. Word used to describe lectures, of-
ficial pronouncements, crossword puz-

zles, ete.
64. Pint. (Abbn)
6. Expel Students. (Abbn.)

1. Murder Is Not A Sin. (Abbn.)

2. First three words in adapted French
drinking song.

3. By way of.

4. Pester a speaker. 3

5. This car was to Ford what UPEI
is to education.

6. Registered Nurse. (Abbn.)

7. Cheat, take in. g

8. State where some interesting test-
ing is done. !

9. Yielding. o

10. Upholder of the sacred rites of

parking regulations

11. Greek god resurrected by Ginz-

2.

12. Initials on invitations.

16. Presidential statement on student
discontent. (2 wds.)

18. Was the leader of.

20. Do military research.

21. Kill Kill (Abbn.)

23. Like most lectures.

28. Not down.

29. Press together by repeated taps.

20. A form of lovemaking frowned
upon by Billy Graham.

35. A direction.

36. Symbol of power gone mad.

37. Con man. (See “politician” or
“academic”.)

39. A new name for M.I.T.
ed440. A hair preparation for the deceas-

81. The complete statement of the ad-
ministration regarding the war in Vet-
nam.

42. Studentis for a Permssive Society.
(Abbn.) o

44. Saint Peter. (Abbn.)

48. An animal which, in the plural,
describes those people who played at
being bosses, admirals, leaders, ete.

50. Civil rights organization. (Abbn.)

53. Part of a sidewalk.

54. Delete. (Abbn.)

55. A biblical character.

57. Period.

60. gice Hash (Abbn.)
x-———___.

WHIP IT OUT

horror show. Not only is it loud and dirty, but
games are provided. The old (really old) favour-
ite, the pinball, has been superceded by the war
game. It at least, justifies its existence, inasmuch
if you can score 15 hits in a game, you get a schol-
arship to the Air Force Academy or the Metropoli-
tan US police force of your choice.

Captain Bearheart’s Little Leaguers provided
aural gratification.

There are differing opinions about Winter Car-
nival: this columnist for one, felt that it was quite
good on the whole. They did lose about 3,000 more
than the 8 grand they figured on, but such things
as the Variety Show, the Coffee Shoppe Pub Night,
and the Main Entertainment were great. In the
main show, Rotary Connection and John Hammond
really shone, with Esther Marrow something of a
bore — her songs dragged on too long without her
ever really getting into them. Bringing in Hammond
was fantastic — although few in the audience had
heard country blues before, he was well applauded
for a fantastic show. Rotary Connection didn’t go
over well, but I couldn’t figure out why—I thought
they had a very tight, heavy sound.

KIES

Charlottetown Guardian,
Oct. 21, 1969

PIGSKIN PIX NEEDED

Peter Sprague, Yearbook Editor, would like all
photographs for the Yearbook submitted by the end
of this month.

Anyone with football pictures is especially re-
quested to submit. The Yearbook office is in the

P

‘basement of Memorial.

HAVE A HIGH NOON

Things to do at noon (besides the obvious: eat-
ing) include the Poetry Readings in the Factulty
Lounge from 12:30 - 1:30 Wednesdays. Local poets
read their stuff.

Guest lectures will be given Thursdays from
1:00- 1:50 in the Duffy Amphitheatre.

Get away from pinballs, jukeboxes, noise, war
games, ete. — bring a lunch and come.

